[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hello.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
And we are coming to you
live from the Gaiam Studios
in Boulder, Colorado.
And since this is a
live show, I encourage
you to interact with us
via Facebook and Twitter.
I encourage your questions
and your comments
throughout the show.
So please keep
connected with us.
All right.
So it's estimated that
nearly 40% of Americans
are currently searching
for their purpose
in life, that they are
unsatisfied in their career
choice or in their
life in general.
Regardless of age
or education, many
find themselves stuck in
a job or in situations
that leaves them feeling
uninspired or unmotivated.
The good news is that
it is never too late
to live a life of overflowing
passion and purpose.
And here to show us
that is Jean Houston.
She is an author
of over 26 books,
a leader in the human
potential movement.
And Jean has spent nearly
50 years consulting
with heads of state, indigenous
villagers, US presidents, CEOs,
and luminaries around the globe.
She is one of the most
highly respected leaders
in the human
development movement.
And she is here with us to help
us get out of that daily grind
and to move into a life filled
with passion and purpose
and gratitude.
Welcome to the show, Jean.
>>JEAN HOUSTON: Thank you.
>>LISA: Thank you
for being here.
>>JEAN: Thank you,
Lisa, for having me.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
And happy birthday, too.
You've got a
birthday coming up--
>>JEAN: A big one.
A big one coming up.
>>LISA: -which is amazing.
So Jean is with us
and talking to us
about your life
and your history.
What got you started in this
human potential movement?
>>JEAN: Well, you
know, I think if I
were to try to pin it
down very specifically,
it's two incidents that
happened two weeks apart when
I was about seven
or eight years old.
Somewhere around there.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>JEAN: And the first began
because my father was a comedy
writer, was writing for Edgar
Bergen and Charlie McCarthy.
You're too young to remember,
but Charlie McCarthy
was the little
dummy, the puppet.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
Of course.
>>JEAN: And Edgar Bergen
was the ventriloquist.
And my father said to
me, hey, Jeaniepot.
You want to go and
talk to Charlie?
Because I used to love to
talk to the little puppet
because he would wise crack
and he was lots of fun.
I said, yeah, daddy, let's go.
So we went to
Bergen's hotel room.
And Bergen was sitting
sort of catty corner to us
so that we could actually
see part of his face
as he was talking
with great intensity
to his dummy, Charlie McCarthy.
And as he was talking,
my father said,
I didn't write that stuff.
Because we thought
Bergen was rehearsing.
And because Bergen
was asking Charlie,
the dummy, ultimate questions.
Charlie, what does it
mean to truly love?
>>LISA: Wow.
>>JEAN: Charlie, where
exactly is the soul?
Charlie, what is
the nature of mind?
Charlie, what can we
do to create a better
rapport between men and women?
The ultimate questions.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>JEAN: And this little dummy
with his wooden clacking jaws
was answering with the
wisdom of the finest
minds of thousands of years.
And then Bergen
would get so excited
and say, yes, but
Charlie, what is
the difference between the
human being and the nature
that surrounds-- well, Bergen!
And he'd give these
incredible answers.
So finally, my father who was
an agnostic Baptist from Texas,
he couldn't stand
it, and he coughed.
And Bergen turned around,
turned beet red, and said,
oh, hello, Jack.
Hello, Jeanie.
You caught us.
And my father said, yeah, Ed.
What in the world are you doing?
He said, well, I'm
talking to Charlie.
He's the wisest person I know.
And my father said,
but Ed, that's you.
Because we actually
had seen him talking,
and his eyes were
filled with wonder.
And his mouth was
going like this
while he was doing
the ventriloquist.
And he said, but that's you.
That's your mind, Ed.
That's your knowledge
coming out of that dummy.
He said, well, yeah, I suppose
Jack, ultimately it is.
But, you know, when I ask him
these questions and he answers,
I haven't got the faintest
idea of what he's going to say.
And what he says astounds
me with his brilliance.
It is so much more than I know.
Whoa, Lisa.
I could feel my future
just walking across me.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>JEAN: Because it was like
a great electrical flow.
And it was my future.
There's so much
more that we know
that we don't know that we know.
And he was using a
dummy to get to it.
Well, hold that story.
Two weeks later, I'm
at my favorite school.
Because I went to 20 schools
before I was 12, but often--
>>LISA: Because?
>>JEAN: Because of my dad
being in show business.
And my favorite
school was PS6, which
was a hugely progressive school.
And we were taken to meet
the great elders of the time.
And our teacher said
to us, children, today
we're going to
meet Helen Keller.
Helen Keller, who had been-- at
the time she was 19 months old
she was deaf, dumb, and blind.
And she read to us-- Miss
Riley, I remember her name was.
She read to us from that
extraordinary autobiography
of Helen where she says, for
the first six years of my life,
I had no concepts whatsoever.
I was like a block of wood.
Nothing could get through.
And my teacher, Anne
Sullivan, had tried in vain
to get me associate hand
movements with words.
I couldn't do it.
Finally, in
frustration, she took me
out to the ivy-covered pump
house-- this is in Alabama--
and into one hand she pumped
the cool, clear something.
And the other she tapped
out W-A-T-E-R. W-A-T-E-R.
And Helen writes, I stood still.
I suddenly understood what
teacher was tapping out
meant that cool,
clear something.
And that word, water, dropped
into my mind like the sun
into a frozen winter world.
And I woke up.
And I learned the
name for 30 things
before the end of that day.
And of course, she
then went on to become
one of the great
learners in history.
Other languages, whole
fields of endeavor,
and the great, great helper of
marginalized and disadvantaged
people.
All right.
With that, we are
put on the bus.
We go down to the
club where Miss.
Keller was to meet us.
We sit down.
Helen Keller comes in.
Now, she's probably
about 70 at the time.
Very handsome woman.
Very, very handsome woman.
And she speaks to us in an
awesome voice that has never
heard speech or remembered it.
But she could speak.
And I was so moved
by what she had
to say that when they asked, is
there any child there who would
like to speak with Miss
Keller, my hand shot up.
I had no idea at all
what I was going to say.
But I knew I had
to speak with her.
So I went forward.
She placed her entire
hand on my face.
And with the center of her
hand, she read my lips.
And with her fingers, she read
my expression, my character.
And so I blurted out with
a child's savage honesty,
why are you so happy?
I couldn't think of
why she was so happy.
And she laughed and she
laughed and she laughed and she
said, my child-- this is what
she sounded like-- my child,
it is because I live each
day as if it were my last.
And life in all its moments
is so full of glory.
is so full of glory--
was she damaged?
I supposed she was.
Was she damaged?
Not at all?
>>LISA: Nope.
>>JEAN: She had rewoven
the remaining filaments
of her senses into a web in
which she caught reality.
And it gave her
this radical empathy
that I talk about and her
willingness and ability
to help evoke so many others.
>>LISA: You have had so
many wonderful examples--
>>JEAN: Well, those are
two very major ones.
I was devoted to
the so much more.
I was devoted to the fact
that what moment-- what it is
like to live in the presence
of the radical present in which
everything is available.
Everything is available.
>>LISA: And then you come
on and you teach that.
And you've created an
entire movement around this.
You are one of-- as I said
earlier-- one of the most
respected teachers in the
human potential movement.
What is that for people that
don't know what that means?
The human potential movement.
>>JEAN: Let me try to
answer in a different way.
Let me try and give you,
very quickly, a sense of what
the possible human is.
Everything I'm going
to say is something
that I or others have explored
in studying the human nature
either in-- with
individuals or with people
in different cultures.
Well, for one thing,
the possible human
enjoys long pleasures
and short pains
instead of long pains
and short pleasures.
She's able to
orchestrate her healing.
She's able to orchestrate
her breathing, her heartbeat,
her skin temperature.
She has this self-orchestration.
Her moods.
She's able to drop into
alpha for meditation or theta
and for very deep,
deep creativity.
Or high amplitude
beta for focus.
>>LISA: At the same time
>>JEAN: She's able to have
a body of great flexibility
and keep that body going.
She's able to stay much younger,
something I've been able to do.
>>LISA: Yes, you have.
>>JEAN: Because I'm 75.
>>LISA: I can't believe it.
>>JEAN: But the reason is I do
some of these things, you see?
>>LISA: You embody this?
>>JEAN: Yeah, and that's
why I don't particularly
age and scare everybody when
they meet me 50 years later.
>>LISA: You don't.
Especially for people
who are retired,
who look at that as
the end of their life,
as an end-of-life
sentence, and stop living.
>>JEAN: And stop living.
So you can live as
long as you want to.
I'm not saying absolutely.
>>LISA: But it happens
between the ears.
>>JEAN: But there's
so many other things.
You can tap into the
great creative treasure
house, the workshops of
the mind for entertainment,
for creativity,
for finding answers
to new kind of solutions.
You can think in images.
You can think in words.
You can think with
your whole body.
You can tap into
the fact that you
have many, many, many different
personalities within you,
some of which come rather
well equipped with all kinds
of skills.
You can get a greatly
enhanced memory.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>JEAN: You can plan
and design and create
all kinds of
creative structures.
You can tap into the
larger story for yourself
and begin to live it out.
You can be in touch with
archetypal, energetic guidance
that then is with
you on your journey.
You can be always living daily
life as spiritual exercises,
deeply touching into and
sourced by the great oneness
of which we are a part.
There's so much, much more
of the possible human.
>>LISA: You have such a
passion for the possible.
You have a passion for what
is possible in human beings
and what is possible--
>>JEAN: Well, I've seen it,
and you want to spread it.
>>LISA: Well, how do you
explain that for our culture?
You say that this is
the most critical time
in history to live.
>>JEAN: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>>LISA: Why is that?
>>JEAN: Well, it is critical
because, first of all,
it's radically original.
Yesterday looks
nothing like today.
Today looks nothing
like tomorrow.
The changes are coming
so thick and fast.
Most people live
anywhere between 5,
10, even 100 times the amount
of sheer experience compared
to their ancestor of,
let's say, 150 years ago.
>>LISA: That makes sense.
>>JEAN: We haven't
been trained for that.
So I say to people,
everybody gets wounded.
You're so full of holes,
you've become holy.
Which has a certain
value because it
makes you vulnerable
and available.
So the fact is everything is
changing so very, very rapidly.
But at the same time,
never before have we
had so much responsibility
placed on us.
We have now become
the co-directors
of a world that up to now
has mostly directed us.
>>LISA: That's true.
We are now at the effect.
We are able to affect things
much, much more than we ever
have been able to.
I think people feel
more empowered amidst
the disempowerment that
is being put down on us.
Do you believe the same thing?
>>JEAN: Well, you can
only be put down so long.
And then the life forces,
the life fires begin to rise.
And this is happening
collectively
all over the world.
I have reason to be able to say
that because my claim to fame
is I'm one of the best traveled
human beings who ever lived.
>>LISA: How many countries
have you traveled to?
>>JEAN: Well, I don't
know how many countries.
I can tell you how many
countries I've worked in.
I've worked in 108 countries.
>>LISA: 108 countries.
>>JEAN: I've probably
been in many more, but I--
>>LISA: When you say worked in--
>>JEAN: I mean I've worked,
I've lectured, I've taught,
I've trained I've done
all kinds of things.
>>LISA: You've lived with
indigenous cultures and--
>>JEAN: Well, yes, some longer
and some short, but yes.
>>LISA: One of our Facebook
questions is coming in.
Maggie is saying, how do I find
that deep source within me?
How do I find that
divine potential?
>>JEAN: Well, you come
and study with me.
Read some of my books.
>>LISA: OK.
Jean Houston's mystery school.
>>JEAN: But that's
just a cavalier answer.
The fact is, first of
all, you believe it.
And you begin to live as if it's
there with you all the time.
One of the best exercises I
show is to get people in touch
with a higher guidance.
And I would have you
stand up, you see.
And I would have you accept that
standing opposite-- your eyes
are closed-- is this high self.
This self as if
you'd had 1,000 years
to do your human homework.
It's the essential self.
It's called the higher self,
who looks upon you with so much
love, with so much
empowerment, with so much
deep, deep acceptance
and affection
and you can feel yourself
empowered, acknowledged.
And you're being so deeply
nourished and cherished
and loved and called forth.
And knowing this, knowing
this and accepting it,
and as you begin to
really experience
this on a daily basis and it
gets stronger and stronger.
And then you realize that you
have a companion for life.
A higher guidance that is
with you that is itself
sourced from the very
source of reality.
Something like that.
>>LISA: That is how to rise
beyond the "you are not enough"
story that we have
been so conditioned by,
that we are not enough.
How do you feel that we
are changing as our story
as humanity?
>>JEAN: Well, you know,
the story is changing.
We now know that we don't
just live in the universe.
The universe lives in us.
We are citizens in a universe
larger than our aspiration,
more complex than
all our dreams,
nearer than hands and feet,
closer than breathing.
It is in us.
This shift felt-- not just
known intellectually--
but when it is felt
and lived from,
provides the people that
I have known who live out
of this, like Margaret
Mead or Deepak Chopra,
and others that we can name.
They live with a state
of grace and opportunity
and what my Sicilian grandmother
referred to as abbondanza.
It goes way beyond abundance.
Abbondanza.
You are living in the fertile
fields of possibility.
And you say yes to life
instead of complaining.
And you look at challenges as
opportunities and workloads.
>>LISA: Some may say that might
be easy for you, Jean Houston,
but how do I do it
when I've lost my loved
one and my job and my house?
What would you tell that person?
>>JEAN: Well, one
thing is that--
and this is very hard to say
because, obviously, everybody
has a unique story-- but
you don't dwell in it.
You say, what is the opportunity
for another kind of living?
What am I being pulled toward?
What is the work that I
really would love to do
and how can I go
about-- and then
you build up the structures
of the expectation of grace.
You build up the
structures in yourself.
You see it.
You touch it.
You hear it.
You feel it.
You incarnate.
You dramatize it.
You begin to send out
the probability waves.
And you keep it going.
And you don't let
yourself fall too long
into the dread and the despair.
Because if you
do, unfortunately,
what you appreciate--
>>LISA: Disappears.
>>JEAN: -is what appreciates.
What you hold on to is
going to hold on to you.
This is the great
irony of being human.
That, well, for one thing,
we are a very interesting
collection of different
evolutionary strands.
The ocean runs
briny in our veins.
We have the ancient, ancient
brain, that little reptilian
complex that protects us.
That survives.
But it also makes us, whoa!
Overreact as if we were
in ancient caves being
chased by a woolly mastodon.
And then we have
the thundering herds
of mammalian beasts
in our limbic system.
And then we have this
curious frontal lobe,
this new brain that is both--
is a trickster and an enchanter
and brilliant and curious--
>>LISA: Curious.
>>JEAN: -and weird, too.
So we really are
remaking our minds.
And the thing-- this new
field of neuroplasticity.
The plasticity.
The changeableness of the brain,
which is growing all the time--
>>LISA: Our brains--
>>JEAN: -allows us to
do things with our mind.
One of the things
that I teach is
how to gain many different
other layers of intelligence
that you didn't know
you had by learning
how to talk to the brain
much more directly.
And there's ways of doing that.
>>LISA: You have to-- you
can't just leave us with that.
You have to share.
>>JEAN: Oh, that's
a long exercise.
>>LISA: To access different
levels of the brain,
to live in that quantum field.
>>JEAN: And also realize
what kind of mind you have.
For example, I have a very,
very auditory kind of mind,
but it's also very
right hemisphere.
I tend to see things as a
whole whereas my husband would
tend to see things in a very
linear and analytic manner.
>>LISA: Yes, I understand.
>>JEAN: So I might
do an exercise
where we would close
our eyes and we'd
breathe-- have a sense of
breathing into the brain.
And then in the left hemisphere,
we would see circles.
On the right hemisphere,
we'd see circles.
Left hemisphere, triangles.
Triangles.
A galaxy.
And that got the
eyes-- which are
part of the brain--
activating the brain.
And then I would
give you images.
You're walking down a street
on the left part of the brain
and you see a marching
band coming toward you.
That's the left brain.
On the right brain, you
are in a garden of roses
and you are picking roses.
You would just do many
images back and forth,
back and forth, back and forth.
This engages the brain.
There's a lot more
you can do with it.
>>LISA: Yes, but
that's a good start.
>>JEAN: And then you would keep
your eyes spiraling, spiraling.
And at the same
time, you would then
have a sense of breathing into
the brain, feeling it expand.
Expand, expand way out.
Taking it back in,
let it contract.
Breathe.
Expand.
Taking it back.
Back and forth.
And then you might tap on
your head and say, dear brain,
let us be friends.
From here on, I ask
you that we can--
me, my conscious self,
and you, my brain--
can work together
in so many ways.
And from here on, a
beautiful friendship begins.
And dear brain,
I really want you
to use more and help
me to use more of you.
And you just keep
talking until you
have that sense of a deep
intimacy with the brain
and mind system.
>>LISA: Is that how you--
>>JEAN: That would be
a way of doing things.
>>LISA: Is that how you
make friends with that mind
chatter--
>>JEAN: It becomes a great ally.
Yes.
>>LISA: -with that negative
mind chatter though?
>>JEAN: Well, because
you have overridden it.
And then the intelligi exercise
that I just showed you,
being with that higher self,
that essential self that
holds the larger pattern
and probability for you.
And that, then, taps you
into a much deeper destiny.
Not an ordinary destiny,
but the deeper destiny
that we all have.
>>LISA: It trumps the negative
mind chatter because it gives
us such a larger purpose,
which is, basically,
one of your main messages
is the greater, the grander
the purpose and the passion,
the more you will thrive.
The more--
>>JEAN: Well, you
say yes to life.
And you don't just
get tripped up
by every little thing
that comes along--
>>LISA: No, I think--
>>JEAN: -because
your story is larger
than these little things.
>>LISA: Yes, this is true.
>>JEAN: Or big things
as the case may be.
>>LISA: I've seen Jean
speak at various events,
and she's so passionate and
motivated when she's speaking.
I want you to take
a look at this clip.
We have her at one of the
events that she's speaking at.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-We are a very fortunate
group of people.
We really are because we
have an extraordinary reason
for being on Earth.
And this, the most important
time in human history--
other times thought
they were it.
They're wrong.
This is it.
The early years of
the new millennium.
Our job, our holy task,
our great privilege
is to help to bring about peace.
Peace that is so rich, so
full of flavor that it makes
sense to make peace.
To shift the dangerous and
fearful war-embracing patterns
of century to offer a rich
and evocative alternative.
Yes?
-Yes!
-Many years ago, I was
on a late-night program.
1, 2 o'clock.
And some you are
going to be pushing
your books at 1 and 2 o'clock in
the morning, but I'll tell you
what happens is after
awhile you fall asleep.
And your mouth keeps on going.
And you're sort
of stunned at what
you have found yourself saying.
And what I found
myself saying was
that many of the images, the
concepts of peace that most
of us grew up with
is simply too tame.
Peace should be alluring.
It should be fascinating.
It should be challenging.
In a word, I said,
peace should be sexy.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: Yes, and that's--
>>JEAN: Sexy peace.
>>LISA: Sexy peace.
That is perfect.
There's a lot of great
questions coming in
via Facebook and Twitter.
Bruce is asking, what do
you really think about 2012?
Is it really an age
of enlightenment?
>>JEAN: I don't know.
I'm reminded of that hilarious
cartoon in the New Yorker
several years back where
it's 1,000 years ago
and it's the ancient
Mayans and you
see the pyramid in the back.
And one guy comes along and he's
rolling along a big calendar
stone.
And he says, I ran out of
stone when I got up to 2012.
And the other guy
says, boy, that's
going to freak out
somebody someday.
>>LISA: Profoundly stated, Jean.
>>JEAN: I don't know.
Let me put it this way.
Whether it means
something or not.
To the Mayans, it means
the end of one era
and the beginning of a new era.
Whatever it means.
So much expectation
has been laid on it--
>>LISA: What is that?
Are we reaching for something?
Is it a back to purpose?
>>JEAN: We're reaching
for something.
We're using that because
supposedly the procession
of the equinox is every 26,000
years a new era, the Aquarian
et cetera.
However it happens, people
are yearning for something.
So when my old friend,
Jose Arguelles,
began to talk it up
years ago, it caught on.
It caught on.
So--
>>LISA: I think it's also
an example of people looking
for-- I mean, there's deep
ancient history around it,
but people really wanting to
grab on to a sense of purpose.
>>JEAN: Wanting to grab on to
something structural in time
that would allow them to
restructure themselves
and their societies.
>>LISA: Very well put.
Again, a question coming in.
Sharon from Facebook is asking,
how do we find our purpose?
I get asked that question all
the time on my radio show.
And I'm sure you do as well.
>>JEAN: Well, I do a
whole course on that
with evolving wisdom,
which is coming up.
And if people go to my
website, jeanhouston.com,
you'll find other opportunities.
>>LISA: And they can train with
you as well, which is great.
>>JEAN: They can train with me.
I really train people--
>>LISA: It's amazing.
>>JEAN: But one of the things
that we find about purpose
is, first of all, not to
get too hung up about it.
You have to be playful about it.
You even have to laugh
at yourself about it.
>>LISA: Not get too
serious about ourselves.
>>JEAN: One of the
things that I do
is have people-- in an
earlier show that we did,
I have you activate
your inner imageries.
Your seeing, touching,
hearing, smelling.
Look at my book, "A
Passion for the Possible."
That has a lot of that.
And then you start to
get a smaller purpose.
Something that you want to
accomplish in three months.
And you see it and
you touch it and you
feel it and you drum
it and you dance it.
And it then gives you a
passionate hormonal energizers,
neuronal enthusiasts.
And you find yourself with
a momentum to accomplish.
>>LISA: You use all five senses.
>>JEAN: Once you start--
you use all of your senses.
Because the senses
often have access
to deeper purposes than
your linear everyday mind.
You use the intelligi exercise
I just showed you, also
in "A Passion for the Possible."
Because with the
intelligi exercise,
you feel yourself accompanied
by that essence, that higher
sense that also knows
your higher purposes.
So you don't feel just blatantly
running solo or alone in this.
>>LISA: Right.
And that's what makes us
tired and burns us out.
We're going to
take a quick break.
When we come back, we'll be
back with Jean Houston, talking
about "The Passion of the
Possible" when we come back.
This is Lisa Garr.
You're watching
"Gaiam Inspirations."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA: Welcome back to
"Gaiam Inspirations."
I'm Lisa Garr, and my guest is
the magnificent Jean Houston,
who is a pioneer in the
field of human development.
We're talking about "A
Passion for the Possible."
So Jean, when we find out
what our purpose is, how do we
stay focused on that
and not get kicked off
of track with all the
distractions in life
and paying bills and all the
things that get in our way?
How do you stay focused
on that passion?
>>JEAN: Well, you do
pay attention to it.
You write about it.
If only 10 words every day.
You add something to
it, to your reflections.
Again, what you
appreciate appreciates.
You always keep it as sacred
time within which you see it,
you touch it, you
taste it, you dance it.
You discuss it.
You write a journal about it,
adding little pieces every day.
You add more.
You draw it.
You picture it.
And as you do these
things and you build up
the internal
complement of it, it
tends to drive you
towards the opportunities,
as well as it drives the
opportunities toward you.
It works both ways--
>>LISA: It does, doesn't it?
>>JEAN: -in this
dialogical universe.
And you do tend that you
find that you stay focused.
>>LISA: So when you're
working with all five senses
and you put your
purpose into all
and you experience it
in all five senses,
you're deeply ingraining it
into the neurology of the body,
right?
Is that what you're saying?
>>JEAN: Among other things
and through the feeling
states and the heart states.
You're cooking on
more burners about it.
>>LISA: OK.
So now how does that then
attract things to your life?
What are your opinions
about the law of attraction
that's been so
written about and is
a huge section in
the bookstores?
>>JEAN: Well,
everything is attraction
attracting everything else.
You look at protons,
neutrons, electrons.
You look at the way
we are attracted
toward the sun,
the sun toward us.
Everything is based on
these powers of attraction.
That's what keeps
the universe going.
Otherwise, it would
all fly apart.
It is essential to not
only the cosmic agenda,
but to the human agenda as well.
>>LISA: Is that, basically, what
one of your mentors, Teilhard
de Chardin, was
talking about when
he looked at life
with full potential
and all of the deepness
and the richness of life?
Essentially, was
that what he was
doing was looking into and
pulling out that and attracting
the passion in the universe?
>>JEAN: He had a passionate
sense of the universe
as yearning for
us-- or the God is
what he would call it--
the Christ yearning for us
much more than we
are yearning for it.
And there is that learning
going on all the time.
When little Dorothy
in "The Wizard of Oz"
starts yearning for the
land over the rainbow,
the land over the rainbow
begins to yearn for her
and sends in a tornado
to take her there.
>>LISA: Right, right.
>>JEAN: But I've just seen
so often when people change
their belief systems about how
things work, everything shifts.
Belief structures reality.
I'll say it again.
And it's not just an
intellectual belief.
It gets to be visceral.
It moves in your
nerves and sinews.
And you know that as you put
out these different energies,
they're going to be
attracted to you magnified.
We are walking magnets.
And if we keep putting out
a steady soup of muddy--
>>LISA: Complaining.
>>JEAN: -complaining,
kvetching, whining,
we're going to get
it back in spades.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
>>JEAN: I've made really
very significant studies over
my life--
>>LISA: Can you share?
>>JEAN: -of the
great manifestors.
And inevitably, they are
putting out conscious intention,
conscious picturing, seeing,
living out of what is there.
And what is there as a
potential begins to then
come and manifest in the
concretion of space and time.
>>LISA: You were
telling me about that.
That you created
an entire course
around studying 18 people who--
>>JEAN: 55.
>>LISA: 55.
God, forgive me.
>>JEAN: It wasn't a course.
It was an actual
study of 55 of some
of the most sustained
manifestors and creative people
of our time.
>>LISA: Where does
someone find that?
>>JEAN: Well, a lot of
them were friends of mine.
Margaret Mead, Buckminster
Fuller, Joseph Campbell,
Jonas Salk.
I can go on and on.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>JEAN: And a lot
of people who I
said whose names
you wouldn't know.
But they had
sustained creativity.
And they were all fascinated
by their own inner minds.
And they used these inner minds.
They would realize
that their mind was
like a supersaturated
solution, and they
had to activate it with images.
So they would drop in
feeling, touching, tasting,
whatever was the
theorem or the problem
or the thing they
wanted to deal with.
And it was as if in the
creative depths of the mind
there was a concretion.
It was as if this seed
crystal of possibility
that they had so coated with
ideas and thoughts and needs
would then begin to constellate.
And the supersaturated
solution of the field
of mind and intelligence,
of creativity
would begin to rise up
and give them answers.
>>LISA: And that
crystallized and formed
into whatever it was that they
were attracting or believing
at the time.
>>JEAN: Yes, but very concrete
answers coming, as well as
opportunities.
It wasn't just
what was rising up
as a creative
solution in the mind.
It was a creative
activity in the world.
>>LISA: You told me a story
about Margaret Mead and--
>>JEAN: Oh, that
was so wonderful.
She was the luckiest
person I ever saw.
Deepak is also like that.
>>LISA: Like intentionally?
>>JEAN: They live in a
state of expect and grace.
Very intentionally.
>>LISA: Big key.
>>JEAN: So Margaret
and I are walking--
I'll change some names because
I gave you the real name-- we
were walking along and she
was going, wah, wah, wah, wah.
I'm so angry.
I have to have this answer
to this particular thing that
happened in a New Guinea
tribe, and I need it
for a very critical speech
I'm giving tomorrow.
I have to have it.
I cannot find it.
Wah, wah wah.
A woman comes up.
Oh, Dr. Mead, you don't know me.
Yes, I do.
Your name is Linda Blitstein.
You were in my class
in 1947, and you never
finished your paper.
>>LISA: The memory.
>>JEAN: Terribly acute memory.
Well, Dr. Mead that's true.
But, you know, I went on
and I developed my paper
for my master's
thesis, which is on--
and it's just the thing
that Margaret needed.
Margaret grabs her and
says, you come home with me.
Well, it was like
luck constellating.
And I said to her, I've
never seen anybody so lucky
in my life.
She said, yes, I am blessed.
Well, why are you so blessed?
Because I expect to be.
>>LISA: And that's
really how she lived.
>>JEAN: She lived
in expectant grace.
>>LISA: Deepak the same?
>>JEAN: Deepak in
a different way,
using more scientific concepts.
Coming out of the
quantum reality
of which is continuously
filled with these potencies,
and you know yourself
that you don't just
live in the universe; the
universe lives in you.
And you make your mind.
He does it with deep meditation
in a state in which he
will also drop in the intention
and the reality constellates
around it.
>>LISA: So how do you do it?
How do you create that
limitless possibility?
>>JEAN: I dance
it, and I sing it.
Well, I come out of a
dramatic background.
I grew up in show business.
So with me, it isn't very quiet.
It's--
>>LISA: It's through
Shakespeare, isn't it?
>>JEAN: And Shakespeare
and well, and great poetry.
I take, for example, a poem
that to me is so important.
I think it's the most important
poem of the 20th century.
>>LISA: What is it?
>>JEAN: It's by Christopher Fry.
It appears in his play,
"A Sleep of Prisoners."
And it goes, "The human heart
can go to the lengths of God.
Dark and cold we may be,
but this is no winter now.
The frozen misery of centuries
cracks, breaks, begins to flow.
The flooding is the
flooding of the--"
and I've forgotten the rest
of it-- the upstart spring.
We're in the upstart spring.
Thank God, our time is now.
When wrong comes up to
meet us everywhere, never
to leave us till we take the
longest stride of soul men
ever took.
Affairs are now soul size.
The exploration
is-- The enterprise
is exploration into God.
What are you making for?
It takes so many
thousand years to wake,
but will you wake
for pity's sake!
So great poetry like that
turns me on, gets me going,
I drop in ideas.
>>LISA: Yes!
I can feel that.
Can you feel that?
You, Jean, had an amazing
reciting of a Shakespearean--
not even.
An entire scene--
>>JEAN: 16th century.
16th century English sounds
on the stage at that time.
>>LISA: Beautiful.
You have an amazing
memory as well.
>>JEAN: Well, I rehearse it.
I have to keep my memories
going because it's
the nature of my
life and teaching.
>>LISA: Intentionally, yes.
So and people can
train with you, right?
They can become--
>>JEAN: Oh, yeah.
There's lots of opportunities.
If they go to my website,
jeanhouston-- one word.
Houston spelled as in
Texas-- jeanhouston.com
they'll find all kinds
of possibilities.
>>LISA: OK, great.
Some more of the
Facebook questions
are coming in for Jean Houston.
>>JEAN: Yes, go ahead.
>>LISA: Valerie is
asking that she's
been at the Occupy gatherings.
And how can stay an empowered
leader to stop this movement?
What can she do?
That's a great question.
>>JEAN: Empowered
leader to keep it going?
>>LISA: Well, she wants to keep
the movement going, but, yeah,
she specifically
says, how does she
stay energized to keep
the movement going?
>>JEAN: Well, I've been
working with the Occupy
Movement for some time.
But people call me
from all over the world
and say, Jean, help
us because we're so
filled with negativity.
And I say, what are you for?
It's not just you're
against the 1%.
>>LISA: Rather than
what you're against.
Yes.
>>JEAN: What are
you going towards?
Or do you want to create places,
safe houses for battered women?
Do you want to
create places where
people can start
building-- having
wonderful gardens in the parks
or make their own food up
on the tops of roofs?
What are the specific things?
They have to feel
successful in doing things
so it is not just an
intellectual or a protest
movement.
We're moving the power
back to the people.
This is what it is about.
>>LISA: That's what the
whole movement is about, yes.
>>JEAN: And so what I do is I
gather them together and let
them think forward.
They pay it forward.
They think it forward.
And then from that,
they begin to do things.
And then what they do
then generates more.
And it generates greater
teams and greater community.
>>LISA: And that's very well
said because I think right now
there is so much more
potential, as you had stated,
for the power to be back in
the hands of the people--
>>JEAN: Very much so.
>>LISA: -in small communities.
>>JEAN: In small communities.
>>LISA: And that will eventually
make a larger difference.
But there is-- that its
happening so much more.
>>JEAN: I believe that.
>>LISA: And it happened
in indigenous cultures.
And that's how true
change was ever made
and shifts of government
and hierarchy was ever made.
OK, going back to
another great question
from our Facebook asker, Mick.
Will things on the planet get
worse before they get better?
Good one.
>>JEAN: Well, I don't know.
I'm not a seer in that way.
>>LISA: You are wise, though.
>>JEAN: But I would say
that things are always
getting worse.
Always.
And things are always
getting better.
And it's what is
the perspective.
If you take it as an opportunity
in work clothes, what
I personally think is
that our financial systems
are at the sunset effect
of their old order
and are probably
going to decline.
>>LISA: Many have said that.
>>LISA: And we may have
different kinds of money.
Different kinds of
money that belong
to individual
communities, rather than
just going often to big banks.
What would it be like if
the $100 that you spent
for a bicycle, that
$50 was really-- it's
called green money, was
in the community and $50
then went elsewhere,
wherever it has to go.
But there are so many, many
new-- so much new thinking
about creative uses, the
creative forms of money.
And we're going to see a lot
within the next 5 and 10 years.
But in terms of
things getting worse,
the climates are getting worse.
But with it comes the
opportunity to get together
and to really
start doing things.
Even the small things can
have the largest effects.
And it's a not so much
is it going to get worse.
It's how do I build
myself not to just
survive, but to actualize
new ways of being, which
is where we are now.
And doing.
>>LISA: And as you said,
bring it into all five senses.
And if enough people
do that and really
visualize peace
in the way that we
would like to see
it on this planet--
>>JEAN: But concrete, going
out and doing something.
Visualization will
take you so far.
Then you've got to have very
particular things you're
doing in the community.
>>LISA: I am very glad
that you said that.
>>JEAN: And one of
things you do is
you tune into your neighborhood.
It's far more
interesting than anything
you'll see on television.
It's weirder and more eccentric.
Tune into your neighborhood.
>>LISA: True.
>>JEAN: And have assets.
A-S-S-E-T-S. Assets
of the community.
Who is able to do this?
Who is able to do that?
Begin to bring people
together and begin
to engender because everybody
has the great calling
of a higher dream.
The higher dream
that's trying to rise.
>>LISA: Do you have
that around you?
How do you attract
the right people
to work with you and your
goals and your visions?
>>JEAN: Because I
hold the dreams.
>>LISA: You do?
>>JEAN: I really do.
And any conversation
that I have that I know
has to go deeper,
that's what we do.
In the last two days,
just being here,
I've worked with a
very great musician who
has a serious, serious
illness, to help
him find his next stage.
I worked with a very, very
great spiritual teacher, rabbi
to help him discover
the new book that
is in him that has to be.
I've worked with--
we can go on and on.
>>LISA: You have.
You just inspire people.
>>JEAN: You're there for them.
I look at everybody in a state
of wonder and astonishment.
I see the god seed.
Sometimes they try very hard to
try to convince me otherwise,
but I maintain that seeing.
Deep what is India-- Hindu
is called deep darshan.
Deep, deep seeing
and receptivity.
>>LISA: I watched
you study people
as you've had interactions
with people throughout the day.
You look at everything
to do with the behavior
of the person, and
you study us, and it'
been such a wonderful experience
to spend the day with you
and to watch how deeply engaged
you truly are with each person
that you come into contact with.
I really see that.
And Jean also does that
when she does her lectures.
We have another clip here of
an amazingly inspiring lecture
that Jean gave.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-Because you see, friends, it
is a dynamic, green, growing
sap-rising concept,
this peacemaking.
And you know, when it works,
it renews both individuals
and communities.
And a lot of your work now
in this most critical time
in human history is
about regenesis, renewal.
Running past the old
cemetery of dead ideas
and beginning to create
new ways of being.
Because what the world
so desperately needs at
this time is patterns.
Patterns for peaceful,
passionately creative,
and effective societies.
And with it,
peaceful, passionately
creative, and effective people.
In other words, the possible
human and the possible society.
And now, look around.
Open your eyes.
Look around at all the
radiant beings around you.
The radiant intelligence.
The astonishing
potentials in this room.
For indeed, dear friends,
these are the times,
and we are the people.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: Absolutely.
This is the inspiration
that my guest, Jean Houston,
delivers in every moment in
everything that we see her do.
And what she's been
doing for us today.
A lot of great questions
coming in again with Facebook.
One of the people wanted to
know, what are you reading now?
What inspires you now?
You've had amazing
mentors in your life.
But what is it now
that inspires you?
>>JEAN: Well, you know,
I read and I reread.
I read a great deal.
I read in science.
I read in physics.
I read in consciousness.
I read in world affairs.
Right now I'm actually in this
kind of plenum of muchness,
and I really cannot point to--
I always have a great novel
going.
>>LISA: A novel?
>>JEAN: I always have
a great novel going.
>>LISA: A story.
>>JEAN: Always, always.
Recently, I read an
extraordinary novel
called "The Song
of Achilles," which
is a retelling of
the Trojan War.
And of course, I
am a Greek scholar.
>>LISA: I noticed your necklace.
>>JEAN: And so I read poetry.
I read things that are--
that make your mind
just begin to sing.
And I do read the New Scientist.
I read Parabola for myth.
So I keep many different
channels going simultaneously.
>>LISA: And I understand
you are, yourself,
working on a new book.
>>JEAN: I just
finished it today.
>>LISA: You did?
>>JEAN: Yes.
It's called "The Wizard of Us."
>>LISA: Oh, that's great.
>>JEAN: And it will be out
probably the end of this year,
early next year.
And we may do it first
as an audio recording.
It takes the "Wizard of Oz" as
a journey of transformation,
and showing how the
different stages of a journey
help us activate our minds
in new ways, our heart,
our courage, our risk,
our ideas, and ultimately,
the wizard, the great magus
who lies within each one of us.
>>LISA: We will look
forward to that.
One of my favorite books
of yours was "Jump Time."
And I love how you
explain that we've
been through various times in
our evolution that have spiked
beyond the normal gradient
jump of evolution.
Spiked, which is what you
call the jump time, right?
>>JEAN: The punctuated
equilibrium.
>>LISA: I love that.
>>JEAN: When you look
at the fossil record
of different species, you
see zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom.
Nothing much happening
for thousands of years.
And suddenly, whoop, it jumps
within very few generations.
I think this happens
in human history also.
And we are in a jump time.
>>LISA: Right now?
>>JEAN: Right now.
>>LISA: This is why it's
such a critical time?
>>JEAN: The most critical
time in our history
because we could lose it all
within the next 50 years or so.
>>LISA: How do we not do that?
How do we keep it?
>>JEAN: I think we-- well,
part of it is that, look,
things are happening
unique in human history.
I said earlier to
some, the world mind
is taking a walk with itself.
We are interconnected, densely
interconnected networks.
The autonomy of the
internet for good or ill,
but it is happening.
The rise of women
to full partnership
with men in the whole
domain of human affairs.
Effecting massive changes.
In my travels around
the world-- I'm
going to say something that's
going to seem very unpopular.
Certainly, politically
incorrect--
when you go around the
world and you find out
who's doing all the work, who's
calling the projects, who's
following through, who's
doing it, 70% are women.
>>LISA: In your
research or you've--
>>LISA: Mine and
everybody else's, too.
And they also tend to be
women of a certain age.
>>LISA: Interesting.
An elder age, by any chance?
>>JEAN: Well, it
depends on the society.
In some places elder is
35 years old, you know.
And they are activating men
to become what they can be.
They are activating the young
men and the young women.
And often, they've
had their babies.
They've done their basic
professional or whatever it is,
and now they are devoted
to the betterment
of the Earth and their
communities and societies.
>>LISA: And making
real, true change.
>>JEAN: And many, many,
many great men too.
But I'm just saying, when
you look at the percentages,
it's very interesting.
>>LISA: It is.
>>JEAN: Because with
women, the emphasis
is on the process of making
things go here and develop
and grow.
>>LISA: I have heard
that from several people,
several different guests
have said the same thing.
>>JEAN: Well, when you go around
the world, it's very apparent.
>>LISA: So in your experience
and from what you're
doing with your travels, are
you going into communities
where there are primarily
dominating women
running the communities?
>>JEAN: No, no.
I wouldn't put it that way.
I would just say that
doing the creative work
and the followthrough and
not giving up and coming up
with the ideas, about 70%,
I would say, are women.
>>LISA: Do you think
in our lifetime
you would see the shift to a
female president of the United
States?
>>JEAN: Yes, I think so.
>>LISA: You do?
>>JEAN: Yes.
>>LISA: Wow.
Without a hesitation
you say that.
And why do you say that?
>>JEAN: Oh, you're ask
an embarrassing question.
I have a lot of knowledge
about some of these things.
I think it's women's
time in America.
They are there in many other
countries and leading the ways
and also in their Congresses
and the Parliaments.
America's actually
fairly backward
compared to other
countries in terms
of women's participation
in the political domain.
>>LISA: Well, it
has definitely--
>>JEAN: But wait a minute.
Let me go deeper than that.
It's not just political.
Politics comes from an
ancient Greek term, politeia.
And politeia really means
can people in community
deeply involved with and
cocreatively creating
better communities.
That's what it's about.
Politeia.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Yes.
It has a--
>>JEAN: So I think it's much
more back to the people.
And I think we're going
to see in our time
the ends of these very strict
hierarchies and much more
community service,
community involvements.
And that's happening
everywhere now.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
And I believe the--
>>JEAN: Because the old
hierarchical forms have failed.
>>LISA: And I believe
that the internet
connects us a lot with that.
>>JEAN: Very much so.
>>LISA: Have you seen that
in all of your mentors
that you've been raised with
and spoken with and interviewed
and so forth.
Have you seen that they
have been driving back
towards that power to the people
or community-based or inner
mind?
>>JEAN: Oh, yes.
Certainly, Margaret Mead.
Absolutely.
She believed absolutely in that.
Buckminster Fuller, an old
friend of mine, very much so.
Joseph Campbell with his
seeing the new storying
that was trying to arise.
I would have to say yes.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Well, there is in--
I saw you speak
at this conference, the
Evolutionary Leaders
Conference in UCLA a while ago.
>>JEAN: Yes.
A couple of years ago.
>>LISA: And you
gave a speech there
that had 2,000 of us on our
feet, jumping up in the air.
It was about jump time, the
very thing that you wrote about.
And it was by far the most
inspirational moment because I
guess what you did is with
everything that you talk about;
you got into all
of our neurology
about jumping up,
rising to the occasion.
>>JEAN: Rising to
the occasion, yes.
>>LISA: Being connected
deeply with our passion
and our purpose.
Even talking about it
makes me come alive.
And you have it here.
Are you willing to share
that with our audience?
Did you write this?
>>JEAN: Yes, I wrote this.
>>LISA: Of course, you did.
What inspired you to write
this particular piece?
>>JEAN: The study
of-- that this is
a singularity, the
uniqueness of our moment.
But the fact that
we are part-- we
are at the very frontal
edge of a whole new order
of the jumps that began
with the big bang.
So would you like me to do that?
>>LISA: Yes, I would.
I would.
We're going to stand up,
and we're going to do this.
And I actually would love
you all to stand up as well.
>>JEAN: Stand up.
It's more fun if you do it.
>>LISA: It's more
fun if you stand up.
And then I want you to
communicate with us on Facebook
and Twitter and give
us your comments
and tell us how you feel
after this and during it.
>>JEAN: By the way,
communicating with Gaiam,
but also on Facebook I am
Jean Houston page official.
Not Jean Houston.
>>LISA: OK.
As well.
So let Jean know how
you feel as well.
>>JEAN: Now what I'm going to
do is every time I say jump,
you're going to
jump because that's
the next stage of-- the
next movement in evolution.
Are you ready?
>>LISA: Yes, I'm ready.
>>JEAN: The first jump--
>>LISA: Jump!
>>JEAN: -was the big bang,
an explosion of light
and in sound so
intense that whatever
was before or from
some otherwhere
imploded itself into a
tiny charge of hydrogen
and jumped into universal form.
Then some five billion
years ago, a supernova
reached jump time, and with an
unimaginably fierce explosion,
offered itself to the universe
in billions of pieces.
Another jump came for us
when the elements spun out
of the explosion,
coalesced into a ball that
condensed into our
mother, our molten planet.
Many jumps of cooling, crusting,
boiling, steaming, raining.
Seas form, the crust roils,
land masses jump and shift,
break off and crawl over each
other, pulverizing everything
in their wake.
Meteors whiz by, jumping,
raising blinding dust storms,
or carom into the Earth's crust,
tossing it to pieces sky high.
It's a set up for the
biggest jump of all.
Life.
Lightning spikes the Earth.
Molecules jump, break
apart, recombine,
jumping through change
after chemical change.
At the edges of the rock
in the shallow waters,
the feast of life begins.
Giant proteins play
with RNA and DNA.
Some jump to form enzymes,
which hurry everything along.
Nucleic acids hold
the information
to make the huge jump
to self-replication.
Molecules build on each
other, combine and recombine.
Jumping, building ever
larger structures, modeling,
learning from each other.
Jump!
Cell walls that move and flex,
letting food in and wastes out.
Jump!
Bacteria form, creating
food for themselves.
As a waste product, a deadly
poison, oxygen, is released.
Jump!
Learn how to cope with oxygen.
Grow or die.
Cooperate or perish.
Make agreements.
Enjoy diversity.
Put it to work.
Jump!
The mothers and
the fathers of us
all are born-- the
nucleated cell.
Jump!
Cell mitosis.
Sexual reproduction.
Organisms unite so the
species can continue.
Plants, jump!
Sea creatures, jump!
Land creatures, big jump!
Dinosaurs, insects,
flowers, birds.
Ferns, trees,
reptile-like animals
competing with dinosaurs
for the daytime world.
Little creatures surviving
because they live at night.
And so need finer senses
and a larger brain.
Jump!
Heads up.
Snout rises.
Eyes converge.
Brain grows.
Jump!
Walking upright.
Language and vocal
communication.
Jump!
Awareness of ourselves.
Spiritual seeking.
Jump!
Tool making.
Clothes wearing.
Plant gathering.
Seed setting.
Wheel turning.
Horse taming.
Water channeling.
Plow rooting.
Loom spinning.
Food storing.
Star charting.
Tower building.
Metal smelting.
Myth telling.
Hieroglyphs and cuneiform and
alphabet to record all this.
Jump!
Bureaucracy and empire.
Religions and scriptures.
Jump!
Buddha, Confucius, Pythagoras,
Christ, philosophers,
and scientists.
Dark ages, Middle
Ages, New Ages.
Jump!
Sea journeys.
World circling.
Trade making.
Colony settling.
Print pressing.
Book scribing.
Art making.
Play writing.
Orchestras.
Clocks and scopes.
Telescopes.
Microscopes.
Spectroscopes.
Scopes to come with interscopes.
Renaissance.
Revolution.
Resettling.
Migration.
Liberty.
Equality.
Fraternity.
Democracy.
Jump!
Steam engine.
Combustion engine.
Jet propulsion.
Jump!
Electricity.
Telegraph.
Telephone.
Radio.
Television.
Technicolor movies.
Nuclear power.
Laser power.
Solar power.
Computers.
Jump!
Vaccination.
Sanitation.
Medication.
Refrigeration.
Anesthesia.
Air conditioning.
Weather forecasting.
Future casting.
Air travel.
Space travel.
Satellites.
News.
Clonings.
Life extension.
Gender choosing.
Species making.
World links.
World banks.
World culture.
Global village.
Gaiam.
And here we are
because it's jump time!
And the jumps continue
because it seems inevitable
that future developments
will follow,
but it's no longer about
a biological evolution
particularly as it is
conscious evolution.
My friend, we are now
conscious of our capacity
to make the new
choices, the new jumps.
>>LISA: The new jumps!
Facebook and Twitter is going
crazy with I feel motivated.
They're saying,
I'm more expanded
and I can think more clearly.
That's the whole point
of the awakened--
>>JEAN: I feel energized.
I feel motivated.
It's very interesting
what's going.
>>LISA: It's great.
That's the beautiful
thing about connecting
with you all and being
a part of this live show
and being a part of Jean
Houston, this amazing woman who
has taught us so much and has
so much more to inspire us with.
But I so appreciate
you being here with us.
Thank you so much.
>>JEAN: Thank you.
And those who would like
a to learn a little more,
jeanhouston-- that's
one word-- .com.
Also, my Facebook is Jean
Houston page official.
>>LISA: And you can train
with this amazing woman.
And if you want to watch a full
90-minute interview with Jean
and I-- she went into
some amazing stories.
You're an incredible
storyteller--
You can go to gaiamtv.com.
You can sign up for a free
trial subscription there.
And you can see lots more
thought-provoking interviews
at gaiamtv.com.
Thank you so much
for joining me.
And thank you so much.
>>JEAN: Thank you for having me.
It's been a great
pleasure to be with you.
Yes, indeed.
>>LISA: Oh, I am so blessed.
Thank you very much.
>>JEAN: Thank you.
Thank you, everybody.
>>LISA: Until next
time, I invite
you to stay inspired and jump!
[MUSIC PLAYING]